DOC-538 Table Collection Docs (#629)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/cep/query-guide/query.md

title: Query
---

> A query defines the processing logic in stream workers. It consumes events from one or more streams, [named-windows][named-window](../windows/index.md), [tables](../sink/sink-types/table/index.md), and/or [named-aggregations](../aggregations/index.md), process the events in a streaming manner, and generate output events into a [stream](../sink/sink-types/stream-sink.md), [named-window](../windows/index.md), or [table](../sink/sink-types/table/index.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A query defines the processing logic in stream workers. Each query consumes events from one or more streams, [named-windows][named-window](../windows/index.md), [tables](../sink/sink-types/table/index.md), and/or [named-aggregations](../aggregations/index.md), process the events in a streaming manner, and generate output events into a [stream](../sink/sink-types/stream-sink.md), [named-window](../windows/index.md), or [table](../sink/sink-types/table/index.md).
```

| Parameter  | Description |
|----------------|-------------|

> | `query name`   | The name of the query. Since naming the query (i.e the `@name('<query name>')` annotation) is optional, when the name is not provided Stream assign a system generated name for the query. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `query name`   | (Optional) The name of the query. If not provided, the stream randomly generates a name. |
```

| `input`        | Defines the means of event consumption via [streams](../source/source-types/stream-source.md), [named-windows](../windows/index.md), [tables](../sink/sink-types/table/index.md), and/or [named-aggregations](../aggregations/index.md), and defines the processing logic using [filters](#filter), [windows](#window), [stream-functions](#stream-function), [joins](#join), [patterns](#pattern) and [sequences](#sequence). |

> | `projection`   | Generates output event attributes using [select](#select), [functions](#function), [aggregation-functions](#aggregation-function), and [group by](#group-by) operations, and filters the generated the output using [having](#having), [limit & offset](#limit-offset), [order by](#order-by), and [output rate limiting](#output-rate-limiting) operations before sending them out. Here the projection is optional and when it is omitted all the input events will be sent to the output as it is. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `projection`   | (Optional) Generates output event attributes using [select](#select), [functions](#function), [aggregation-functions](#aggregation-function), and [group by](#group-by) operations, and filters the generated the output using [having](#having), [limit & offset](#limit-offset), [order by](#order-by), and [output rate limiting](#output-rate-limiting) operations before sending them out. If not provided, then all the input events are sent to output as-is. |
```

Author: I am a fan of including "then" when you start a sentence with "if." It's a helpful signpost for less-skilled readers.

> Values are typed data, that can be manipulated, transferred and stored. Values can be referred by the attributes defined in definitions such as streams, and tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Values are typed data that can be manipulated, transferred, and stored. Values can be referred to by the attributes defined in definitions such as streams and tables.
```

Stream supports values of type `STRING`, `INT` (Integer), `LONG`, `DOUBLE`, `FLOAT`, `BOOL` (Boolean), and `OBJECT`.

> The syntax of each type and their example use as a constant value is as follows,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The syntax of each type and their example use as a constant value is as follows:
```
